# Internationalization

Internationalization (i18n) is a big topic by itself. The broadest definition has to do with translating your user interface to other languages. Localization (l10n) is a more specific term, and it describes how to adapt your application to a specific locale or market. Different locales might have the same language, but they may still have their customs, like date formatting or measures.

One way to solve the problem would be to push the translations behind an end point and load them dynamically to decouple the problem from webpack. It would also allow you to implement a translation interface within your application to allow your translators, or even users, to translate the application. The downside of this approach is that then you have a translation backend to maintain.

Another approach is to let webpack generate static builds, each per language. The problem is that you have to update your application each time your translations change. Given this is a good starting point for small applications, I’ll cover the basic idea next.

## i18n with Webpack

The basic idea of i18n with webpack is often the same. You have some translation definition that is then mapped to the application through replacements. The result contains a translated version of the application. You can use multiple translation formats through a couple of solutions:

* [i18n-webpack-plugin](https://www.npmjs.com/package/i18n-webpack-plugin) relies on a pure JSON definition and performs the replacement through `__('Hello')` placeholders.
* [po-loader](https://www.npmjs.com/package/po-loader) maps [GNU gettext PO files](https://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/manual/html_node/PO-Files.html) to multiple formats including raw JSON and [Jed](https://messageformat.github.io/Jed/).
* [jed-webpack-plugin](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jed-webpack-plugin) is a plugin-based solution for Jed.

To illustrate the basic setup, we could try out *i18n-webpack-plugin* and see how the string replacement works.

## Setting Up a Project

To prove that translation works, we should have an entry point that has something to replace:

```javascript
console.log(__('Hello world'));
```

To translate that into Finnish, set up a definition:

**languages/fi.json**

```json
{
  "Hello world": "Terve maailma"
}
```

To make ESLint aware of the global `__` function, you should add it to your linting rules like this:

```javascript
"globals": {
  "__": true,
},
```

The next step is to glue the files together using webpack.

## Setting Up `I18nWebpackPlugin`

Install *i18n-webpack-plugin* and *glob* helper first. The latter is needed for capturing translation files.

```bash
npm install glob i18n-webpack-plugin --save-dev
```

On the webpack side, we should iterate through the available languages, and then set up a configuration for each:

**webpack.i18n.js**

```javascript
const path = require('path');
const glob = require('glob');
const I18nPlugin = require('i18n-webpack-plugin');

const PATHS = {
  build: path.join(__dirname, 'i18n-build'),
  i18nDemo: path.join(__dirname, 'app', 'i18n.js'),
};

const TRANSLATIONS = [{ language: 'en' }].concat(
  glob.sync('./languages/*.json').map((file) => ({
    language: path.basename(file, path.extname(file)),
    translation: require(file),
  }))
);

module.exports = TRANSLATIONS.map(({
  language, translation,
}) => (
  {
    entry: {
      index: PATHS.i18nDemo,
    },
    output: {
      path: PATHS.build,
      filename: `[name].${language}.js`,
    },
    plugins: [
      new I18nPlugin(translation),
    ],
  }
));
```

To make it convenient to build, set a shortcut:

**package.json**

```json
"scripts": {
  "build:i18n": "webpack --config webpack.i18n.js",
},
```

If you build now (`npm run build:i18n`), you should end up with a new directory containing two translated files. If you examine them, you should see webpack bootstrap and the translated code in each.

To take the example further, you could generate a proper page for each translation as described in the *Multiple Pages* chapter. Language selector would be a useful addition to the demonstration. You could handle the language definition through webpack’s `DefinePlugin`. A user interface widget could rely on that and load another language based a page or directory naming convention.

T> The techniques discussed in the *Code Splitting* chapter are valid with i18n. You could define dynamic `import`s to load translation files on demand. Doing this would push the problem of loading and maintaining translations elsewhere.

## Conclusion

The other webpack approaches follow a similar idea but require more work on the frontend side. They are also more flexible, and if you go with a loader based solution, then you can set up split points to load languages on demand. You can also consider caching the language data to avoid fetching it altogether or loading it in smaller portions.

To recap:

* **Internationalization** (i18n) and **localization** (l10n) are important problems if you target multiple markets with your application.
* Webpack supports multiple approaches to i18n. The most basic approach is to replace specifically strings with other strings although more sophisticated alternatives are available.
* An alternative way to handle the problem would be to push it to a server. This way would be a more dynamic way to manage it, and it would also allow you to handle translating the actual application through the same API.

In the next chapter, I will discuss various testing setups and tools that work with webpack.
